Hello Everyone ,

Today topic is Cabling system

Computer networks require communication media to transfer data between 
devices. These cables are essential for establishing communication between  
computers, switches, routers, and other networking device.

Twisted Pair Ethernet cable is example
Network cables:
Transfer digital data signals 
Enable communication between devices 
Support Local Area Networks (LANs) 
Provide reliable wired communication 

The three major cable types used in networking are Straight-Through Cable 
,Crossover Cable and Rollover Cable

RJ-45 is the standard connector used in Ethernet networking.
Features :
8 pins 
8 conductors 
Also called 8P8C connector 
Functions :
Connects networking devices 
Supports Ethernet communication 
Used in LAN systems

There are two standards recognized by ANSI, TIA and EIA for wiring Ethernet 
cables. The first is the T568A wiring standard and the second is T568B. 
T568B has surpassed 568A and is seen as the default wiring scheme for 
twisted pair structured cabling.

These standards defines the wire sequence ,pin arrangement and color coding.

T568A STANDARD :
It is an older standard and Used in some government installations .It is compatible 
 with Ethernet standards.
T568B STANDARD :
Most commonly used standard 
Preferred in commercial installations 
Widely adopted globally 

A straight through cable is a type of twisted pair cable that is used in local 
area networks to connect a computer to a network hub such as a router.
This type of cable is also sometimes called a patch cable and is an 
alternative to wireless connections where one or more computers access a   
router through wireless signal.

On a straight through cable, the wired pins match.
Straight through cable use one wiring standard: both ends use T568A wiring 
standard or both ends use T568B wiring standard.

Straight-through cables connect different networking devices.
Different devices internally use opposite transmit and receive pairs.
Example: Computer transmits and Switch receives on pair (1,2) Therefore, no wire crossover is needed.

A crossover Ethernet cable is a type of Ethernet cable used to connect 
computing devices together directly. 
The internal wiring of Ethernet crossover cables reverses the transmit and 
receive signals.
Unlike straight through cable, the RJ45 crossover cable uses two different 
wiring standards: one end uses the T568A wiring standard and the other    
end uses the T568B wiring standard.

It is most often used to connect two devices of the same type: e.g.
two computers (via network interface controller) or two switches to each 
other.

Auto-MDIX allows modern networking devices to automatically detect:
Transmit pair 
Receive pair 
Benefits
Eliminates need for crossover cables 
Simplifies installation 
Improves compatibility 
Today, many devices can use straight cables universally.

A rollover cable completely reverses all pin connections.
It is mainly used in Device configuration  and Console communication 
It is also known as Console cable & Cisco console cable
Rollover cables support serial communication instead of Ethernet communication.
Used for:
Router configuration 
Switch management 
Command-line interface access 
Troubleshooting network devices

