Hello Everyone,

Today topic is Network components 

Network components are the physical and logical parts that make a computer network work.
It comprises both hardware and software components to make the network functional .
The hardware components are the server, client, peer, transmission medium, and connecting devices.
The software Components are Operating System and Protocols.
They allow devices to communicate, share data, and access resources.
The different components are used to provide the different functionality 
Example of hardware components  are router , switch, bridge, cable etc. and software network is TCP,HTTP,FTP etc.

Hardware components are the physical devices used to connect computers and allow them to communicate and share data.
 Each component has specific features and uses.
It provides the connectivity through which devices can communicate 
Hardware components transfer quickly and accurately across the network 
It provides the security in network
It provides the scalability, we can expand the network by simply adding the switches and routers
It ensures the reliable and stable communication .
Different hardware components are used to increase the network speed

The major hardware components of the network are :
Server – A powerful computer that provides services, data, or resources to other computers
It provides the  High storage and processing power 
It is used in  Central management of data and services
It Stores files, manages users , hosts websites , databases, email, etc.
Client - A computer or device that requests services from a server 
It provides User-friendly access to network resources 
It is used in Access applications, files, and internet
It is used by users to access files, internet, applications, and network resources

Peer - A computer that can act as both a client and a server in a peer-to-peer network
It provides  Equal communication between computers 
It is used in  Small networks and direct sharing
It is Used for direct file and resource sharing between computers

Transmission Medium - The path through which data travels
It includes cables (wired) and wireless signals
It enables data transfer physically or wirelessly 
Optical fiber ,Ethernet and Wi-Fi are some example of Transmission Medium

Connecting Devices - Devices used to connect and manage communication between network devices
IT controls and directs network traffic 
It builds and manages network communication
IT includes devices like routers, switches, hubs, modems, bridges and many more 

