Hello Everyone ,

Network Topology in Computer Networks 

Network Topology is defined as the arrangement of different communication devices like nodes and links.
There is mainly two types of network topology are Physical topology and logical topology.

In the logical topology we emphasizes about the pattern of data transfer between network .
And in the physical topology we deals with the physical layout of the connected devices and nodes.

There are mainly six types of physical network topology are :-

1. Bus topology - This is the simplest topology in which each node is connected by the main cable with the help of drop cable.
This kind of topology is easy to manage and handle and in this topology the failure main cable causes the failure of network .

2.Star topology - In this topology all the nodes are connected with the help of central hub .We use switch or hub as the central hub .
Each node whether it request services or offer services has to first connect with the central hub.
 This kind of topology is scalable and since all the network is dependent upon the central hub failure of central hub causes the failure of whole 
network .

3.Ring topology - In this topology , computers are connected in such a way that it forms the ring like structure and message passing is done in circular 
and unidirectional fashion. Each pc has alloted a fixed amount of time to access the transmission in the network .

In this topology only fewer amount of cable is used and also it minimizes the possibility of data collision .
Failure of any node will cause the failure of whole network .

4.Mesh topology - In mesh topology ,Each computer is connected with the another computer in the network .If there is N node ,then the one single node is connected 
by the n-1 node.

The mesh toplogy maintains security and privacy as there is separate communication for each node and also there is backup path available for the network 
in case of node failure . There is more requirement of cable so this topology becomes expensive .

5.Tree topology - In Tree topology ,All nodes are either directly or indirectly connected to the main bus cable .Bus and star topology are combined to
form the tree topology .

If one of the hierarachical network fails,the others are unaffected .The cost of cabling and hardware is high.

6.Hybrid topology - In hybrid topology , different topology are used to form this topology .
It allows more nodes to join the network and we can also modify the network our need .The implementation of hybrid topology is costly. 
 

