Hello Everyone,

Types of Network in the Computer Network

Types of Network is classified on the basis of different ways are :-
Geographical area,Transmission medium and Ownership and accessibility

Geographical area - Geographical area refers to the area covered by the network or in other words range of network 

There are mainly five ways on the basis of geographical area are :- PAN,LAN,CAN,MAN,WAN

PAN (Personal Area Network) - Personal Area network is the smallest range of network in which we connected the local devices.
It is connected with the help of Bluetooth,nic .
Real life examples of using the PAN is Connecting the smartphone and Smart Watch with the help of bluetooth.

LAN (Local Area Network) - Local Area Network is used to provide connnectivity in the small office ,rooms etc.
It is connected with the help of Wifi,Ethernet.
Example of LAN is Office Wifi network.

CAN (Campus Area Network) - It is used to provice the network connectivity in building and campus .
It is connected with the help of ethernet cable and optical fibre cable.
Example of CAN is University Network.

MAN (Metropolitan Area Network )  - It is used to provide the connectivity in one city or town.
It is connected with the help of Optical fibre ,Macro Ethernet.
Example of MAN is city wide ISP.

WAN (Wide Area Network ) - It is used to connect the country and continent.
It is connected with the help of satellite and internet.
The best example of WAN is Internet.

Transmission Medium - Transmission Medium refers to the method used to share the data signals from one device to another .

The network types based on the transmission medium is Broadcast network and Point-to-Point Network.

Broadcast Network - In this network the data transmitted by the single node  is received by all the other nodes in the network and the device with matching destination address receive the data packets.

Example of Broad Cast network is Ethernet and Wifi.

Point-to-point Network - In this network the data transmitted by one node is transmitted only to the intended nodes.
Example of Point-to-Point Network is Internet.

Ownership and accessibility - It defines the who is permitted to use the network and who owns it.

Private Network - Private Network is owned by the single organization and only authorized user can access the network with the help of userId and password
Example of private Network is company's internal network.

Public Netwrok - Public Network is owned by the service providers and government bodies and user can simply access to it.
Example of public Network is Railwire or Public wifi network.

Hybrid Network - Hybrid Network uses both the public and private network .
Example of hybrid network is bank's network - Internal network is implemented through the private network and external is open to all the user.

