Hello Friends ,

Data communication and its basic concepts in Computer Network.

Data communication - It is defined as the transferring of data between the devices with the help of transmit medium.
The data communication can occur in two ways whether Analog or Digital .

There are five main components for happening of the data communicaion are data,sender,receiver,transmission medium and protocols.
This can be understood with the help of example of sending the message to your friend in whatsapp.
Here,
Message is data, 
You are sender,
Your friend is receiver,
Internet is the transmission medium,
Communcation rules is the protocols.

On the basis of transmission of data signal Data Communication is divided into main types are Analog and Digital Communication.
In the Analog comunication the data is data is transferred in the continous form like in the waves and they vary smoothly over time.
Radio signal and TV Broad cast are the example of Analog communication .
It is simple technology but it distort the signal over the large distance and also it is not more reliable and it contains the more noise.

In the Digital Communication the data is transffered in the discrete value either in 0 and 1.
It is most widely used in today communication . The example of digital communication is computer and internet
Advantages of using the Digital Communication contains less noise and it is more reliable.


In the Data communcation there is two most important parameter to measure the speed of data transfer that is bandwidth and Throughput.
The Bandwidth is the maximum amount of data any interface can transfer .It is measured in bits per second.
For example Ethernet cable has bandwidth of 10mbps while fast ethernet has bandwidth of 100mbps.

Now the throughput is the actual speed of the data tranfer in the interface.It is mostly less than the actual bandwidth due to the noise and hardware 
limitations. 

Sometimes we experience the video buffering and voice breaking during the call it happens due to the latency and jitter.
Latency is defined as the time taken to reach the data from the sender to the receiver.
Low latency gives us the better experience in Online gaming and video calls.

While Jitter is defined as the variation in the latency in the data transfer .
Low jitter gives is required for the better  user experience.

On the basis of way of communication performs ,Data communication is divided into three main types are Simples,Half Duples and Full Duplex.

Simplex - It is the one way communictaion of the data .Communication between the keyboard and monitors comes under the simplex communication .
Half Duplex - It is the two way communication of data but one way at a time . Walkie - talkie is the example of half duplex in which pnly person in speaking at a time.
Full Duplex - It is the two way communication of data in which both devices can transfer the data simultaneously.Data transmission with Ethernet cable is 
full duplex.

