Hello Everyone,

Network Models - TCP/IP Model

TCP/IP model - This is functional framework that standardizes how data is pakectized,addressed and transmitted over the Internet.It ensures the realiable
 end-to-end communication by breaking data into packets and routing hem and reassembling them at the destination.

This model contains four layers which are Application layer,Transport layer,Internet layer and Link Layer.

Link layer - This is the lowest layer of the model which describes what links such as serial lines or classic ethernet must do to meet the needs of the
connectionless internet layer.

Ethernet ,Bluetooth are used to provide the connection comes under this layer.

Internet Layer - The job of this layer is to permit the hosts to inject the packets into any network and have them travel independently to the destination.
They may also arrive out of order.

The IP and ICMP protocol works in this layer.

Transport layer - This layer is designed to allow the peer entities on source and destination to carry on a conversation.Two protocols are used in this
 layer is TCP which is connection oriented and reliable and another one is UDP which connectionless and unreliable.

Application layer- The TCP/IP model does not have the presentation and session layer .On the top of transport layer there is application layer which is the 
highest layer containing protocols like Telnet ,FTP,HTTP etc.

Comparision of OSI and TCP/IP model

The OSI and TCP/IP models contains much similiarity like both are based on the concept of stack of independent  protocols and transport layer in both model 
provides the end to end communication.

Despite these similarity ,they also contains some differences which are 

OSI model contains the session and presentation layer whereas TCP/IP model done working of these layer within the application layer.
OSI model is a theoretical model developed by the ISO whereas TCP/IP model is practical model developed by DoD for internet use.
OSI model was developed before the widespread of the Internet whereas TCP/IP model was developed specifically for the Internet implementation.
In OSI model each layer is strictly independent with clear interfaces whereas in TCP/IP they are more integrated.
OSI model is used as reference for teaching /network design whereas TCP/IP model is used by Internet globally.




 

